---
description: >-
  This page contains the changelog entries for AM 4.6.0 and any future minor or
  patch AM 4.6.x releases
---

# AM 4.6.x

## Gravitee Access Management 4.6 - January 20, 2025 <a href="#gravitee-access-management-4.5-october-10-2024" id="gravitee-access-management-4.5-october-10-2024"></a>

<details>

<summary>What's new</summary>

## Twilio Resource

The new version of the Twilio resource for SMS or Call factors allows you to specify the templateSid as configuration option.

## LDAP Identity Provider

The  new version of the LDAP identity provider grant you access to the Operational Attributes linked to the user profile coming from the LDAP server. (**NOTE:** If this option is enable, Opertational Attributes will be accessible using the User Mapper.)

## User Migration

For users migrations from an alternative OIDC provider to Access Management, you now have the capability to define the `lastPasswordReset` attribute so a password policy with password expiry will request a password reset according to the value provided during the migration. This attribute is accepted only during user creation through the SCIM protocol or the Management API.

## Audit Logs

Additional audit logs have been added on SCIM endpoint to track failing user creations or updates due to an invalid password. In additiopn, a distinction is made between user login with password against using passwordless in a way that the dashboard now expose these information.

## Bulk action for user provisioning

User provisioning is now possible using Bulk actions to create, update or delete users. A dedicated endpoint has been added on the Management API and the SCIM protocol exposed by the Gateway implement the Bulk endpoint (only for the users, groups are currently not managed)

## New Certificate plugin

A key pair registered in AWS Cloud HSM can be used to sign an tokens generated by Access Management by using the new "AWS Cloud HSM" certificate plugin.&#x20;

</details>

<details>

<summary>Breaking Changes</summary>

### SCIM pagination

In previous versions, the `startIndex` parameter used by SCIM paginiation was representing the page number. According to the [specification](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc7644#section-3.4.2) the `startIndex` represent `the index of the first search result desired by the search client` . In order to be align with the specification, the SCIM endpoints of AM Gateway are managing the startIndex as specified by the RFC.



</details>

\
