---
description: An overview about overview.
---

# Overview

Every API Management installation includes several default resources that are commonly used in standard APIM implementations and can be configured during the API design phase. The recommended configuration method employs the [Policy Studio](../policy-studio/README.md).

The following sections summarize resource descriptions, configuration parameters, and configuration examples.

## Resource descriptions

APIM includes several default resources, each of which is described in more detail below.

* [**Cache**](cache.md#cache)**:** Maintains a cache linked to the API lifecycle, i.e., the cache is initialized when the API starts and released when the API stops. It is responsible for storing HTTP responses to avoid subsequent calls to the backend.
* [**Cache Redis**](cache.md#cache-redis)**:** Same as Cache (above), but the current implementation is based on Redis. The Cache Redis resource can be configured standalone or as part of the Redis Sentinel monitoring solution.
* [**OAuth2 - Gravitee AM Authorization Server**](oauth2.md#gravitee-am-authorization-server)**:** Introspects an **access\_token** generated by a Gravitee AM instance.
* [**OAuth2 - Generic Authorization Server**](oauth2.md#generic-authorization-server)**:** Introspects an **access\_token** generated by a generic OAuth2 authorization server. This resource provides a comprehensive configuration for how token introspection is applied in to accommodate common authorization servers.
* [**Confluent Schema Registry**](confluent-and-keycloak-resources.md#confluent-schema-registry)**:** Fetches serialization/deserialization data from a Confluent schema registry.
* [**HTTP Authentication Provider**](authentication-providers.md#http)**:** Validates user credentials against an HTTP server.
* [**Inline Authentication Provider**](authentication-providers.md#inline)**:** Authenticates a user in memory.
* [**LDAP Authentication Provider**](authentication-providers.md#ldap)**:** Authenticates a user in LDAP.
* [**Keycloak Adapter**](confluent-and-keycloak-resources.md#keycloak-adapter)**:** Introspects an access token.

{% hint style="warning" %}
The **Cache Redis** plugin is not included in the default APIM distribution, but you can [download](https://download.gravitee.io/#graviteeio-apim/plugins/resources/gravitee-resource-cache-redis/) and [deploy](../../../overview/plugins-and-api-definitions/plugins/deploying-plugins.md#deployment) it. For information on configuring cache in APIM, see [Configure cache](../../../installation-and-upgrades/repositories/cache.md). For information on configuring the rate limit repository plugin for Redis, see [Redis](../../../installation-and-upgrades/repositories/README.md#redis).
{% endhint %}
