---
description: Continue advancing your Gravitee API Management knowledge
---

# What's Next

Congratulations on completing the Quickstart guide! While hopefully a great warm-up to the Gravitee API Management (APIM) platform, we've barely scratched the surface of APIM's extensive feature set.&#x20;

Below, we've highlighted some docs that will help you graduate to more advanced APIM workflows:

<table data-card-size="large" data-view="cards"><thead><tr><th></th><th></th><th></th><th data-hidden data-card-target data-type="content-ref"></th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td><strong>Advanced Tutorials</strong></td><td>Want to learn more advanced APIM concepts for real-world use cases? Come check out our advanced tutorials that help you learn APIM alongside a pre-built sample application.</td><td></td><td><a href="../tutorials/">tutorials</a></td></tr><tr><td><strong>Gravitee Expression Language (EL)</strong></td><td>Curious about what EL is and how you can use it to seriously customize APIM's behavior? Check out this guide.</td><td></td><td><a href="../../guides/gravitee-expression-language.md">gravitee-expression-language.md</a></td></tr><tr><td><strong>API Monitoring</strong></td><td>Are you ready to learn how APIM can meet infosec requirements around API auditing and observability? Come learn about our built-in monitoring tooling (APIM also supports <a href="../configuration/configure-reporters/">external SIEM tooling integrations through reporters</a>).</td><td></td><td><a href="../../guides/api-measurement-tracking-and-analytics/">api-measurement-tracking-and-analytics</a></td></tr><tr><td><strong>Gravitee Kubernetes Operator</strong></td><td>Love the APIM Console but looking to see how APIM supports managing your Gateway APIs in a declarative and programmatic fashion? Come learn about the Gravitee Kubernetes Operator.</td><td>Alternatively, if you're not a Kubernetes shop, check out our comprehensive <a href="../../reference/management-api-reference.md">reference documentation for the Management API</a>.</td><td><a href="../../guides/gravitee-kubernetes-operator/">gravitee-kubernetes-operator</a></td></tr><tr><td><strong>Policy Reference</strong></td><td>Want to learn more about policies and what's available out of the box? Check out Gravitee's extensive policy reference documentation.</td><td></td><td><a href="../../reference/policy-reference/">policy-reference</a></td></tr><tr><td><strong>Custom Policies</strong></td><td>Want to add your own plugins and policies? Learn how easy it is to extend Gravitee's core capabilities.</td><td></td><td><a href="../../guides/developer-contributions/dev-guide-policies.md">dev-guide-policies.md</a></td></tr><tr><td><strong>v4 vs v2 Gateway API Definitions</strong></td><td>Keep seeing v4 and v2 APIs but not really sure you understand the difference? Check out our in-depth guide.</td><td></td><td><a href="../../overview/gravitee-api-definitions-and-execution-engines/">gravitee-api-definitions-and-execution-engines</a></td></tr><tr><td><strong>Community forum</strong></td><td>Stuck on something? Feedback or feature requests on the product? Head over to our awesome forum to tap into the power of the Gravitee community!</td><td></td><td><a href="../../community-and-support/community/">community</a></td></tr></tbody></table>
